### Is leaving user a choice always a good thing?
Atlassian just shared info that they change the link opening behavior that was frustrating me and thousands of users for a long time (see [JRACLOUD-9380](https://jira.atlassian.com/browse/JRACLOUD-9380)). In short, all links in Jira and Confluence were always opened in the same tab, even if they were external links.

The rational was that it leaves users a choice how they want to open these links. If you set `target="_blank"` on links, it's much harder to open a link in the same tab (although not impossible). At the first glance it might seem as a good idea. But is it? Thousands of frustrated users seem to think otherwise. 

The problem with choice is that it requires **cognitive effort**. Before clicking a link, you always have to think for a split second how you want to open it and recall the right method. If you open dozens of links everyday, the total cognitive effort sums up to an uncomfortable amount. Especially, if the users can see a clear pattern of behavior that would be a preferable one - open internal links in the same tab, and external links in a new tab.

This begs the question - how to recognize these situations early on and implement the desired behavior right away? I'd say there are 2 possibilities: 1) test the solution before development, 2) go with you intuition, but budget some time to observe and evaluate users' behavior.

Tests are not always economically viable. Take this case - it's cheaper to just go with any of the two options (same tab vs. new tab), and implement a quick change if the feedback points to the other one. However, this option is risky as it relies heavily on your and your company's will to execute the next iteration.
